Default conversation filtering by consent state (#204)
xmtp/docs-xmtp-org: docs/pages/inboxes/list-and-stream.mdx

# List and stream conversations and messages

## List existing conversations

Get a list of existing group chat and DM conversations in the local database.

By default, `list` returns only conversations with a [consent state](/inboxes/user-consent/user-consent#how-user-consent-preferences-are-set) of allowed or unknown.

We recommend listing allowed conversations only. This ensures that spammy conversations with a consent state of unknown don't degrade the user experience.

To list all conversations regardless of consent state, pass `[ALLOWED, UNKNOWN, DENIED]`.

Conversations are listed in descending order by their `lastMessage` created at value. If a conversation has no messages, the conversation is ordered by its `createdAt` value.

:::code-group

```js [Browser]

> const allConversations = await client.conversations.list([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);
> const allGroups = await client.conversations.listGroups([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);
> const allDms = await client.conversations.listDms([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const allConversations = await client.conversations.list(["allowed"]);
const allGroups = await client.conversations.listGroups(["allowed"]);
const allDms = await client.conversations.listDms(["allowed"]);
```

```

```js [Node]

> const allConversations = await client.conversations.list([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);
> const allGroups = await client.conversations.listGroups([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);
> const allDms = await client.conversations.listDms([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const allConversations = await client.conversations.list(["allowed"]);
const allGroups = await client.conversations.listGroups(["allowed"]);
const allDms = await client.conversations.listDms(["allowed"]);
```

```

```tsx [React Native]
// List Conversation items

> await alix.conversations.list([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
await alix.conversations.list(["allowed"]);
```

## Stream all group chat and DM messages

> Listens for new messages on the network in all active group chat and DM conversations that were created after the stream started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Listens for new messages on the network in all active group chat and DM conversations as well as new conversations irregardless of when the stream was started.
```

> Listens for new messages on the network in all active group chat and DM conversations as well as new conversations irregardless of when the stream was started.

Author: ```suggestion
Listens for new messages on the network in all active group chat and DM conversations, as well as new conversations regardless of when the stream was started.
```

When a new message is sent to any of these conversations, the callback is triggered with a `DecodedMessage` object. This keeps the inbox up to date by streaming in messages as they arrive.

By default, `streamAll` streams only conversations with a [consent state](/inboxes/user-consent/user-consent#how-user-consent-preferences-are-set) of allowed or unknown.

> We recommend streaming messages for allowed conversations only. This ensures that spammy conversations with a consent state of unknown don't take up networking resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend streaming messages for allowed conversations only. This ensures that spammy conversations with a consent state of unknown don't take up networking resources. Or store unwanted spam messages in the users local database.
```

:::code-group

```js [Browser]

> const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllMessages([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllMessages(["allowed"]);
```

```js [Node]
// stream all messages from all conversations

> const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllMessages([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllMessages(["allowed"]);
```

 
// stream only group messages

> const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllGroupMessages([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllGroupMessages(["allowed"]);
```

 
// stream only dm messages

> const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllDmMessages([ConsentState.ALLOWED]);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const stream = await client.conversations.streamAllDmMessages(["allowed"]);
```

await alix.conversations.streamAllMessages(
  async (message: DecodedMessage<any>) => {
    // Received a message
  },

>   { consentState: [ConsentState.ALLOWED] }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { consentState: ["allowed"] }
```

);
```

```kotlin [Kotlin]

> alix.conversations.streamAllMessages(type: /* OPTIONAL DMS, GROUPS, ALL */, consentState: [ALLOWED]).collect {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alix.conversations.streamAllMessages(type: /* OPTIONAL DMS, GROUPS, ALL */, consentState: listOf(ConsentState.ALLOWED)).collect {
```
